the great thing about Chinese is that
nobody says it's an easy language to
learn and the bad thing about Chinese is
absolutely everything else the
illustrations in this video largely
speak for themselves i'm going to try
not to do too much talking some of them
are probably worth pausing and staring
at for a bit longer if you're trying to
get familiar with the the etymologies
and think about whether or not
memorizing the county system of radicals
the right approach language for you on
the left hand side of the screen there's
a seemingly eccentric radical this is
called the yawn radical what a great
concept other languages just have boring
alphabets but in Chinese one of the
components of the language is just to
represent yawning the most commonly used
meaning is actually 20 something as if
noted there on the screen and on the
right hand side of the screen you have
right away two examples of how it looks
when it's used as a component in forming
other characters now here you have six
Chinese characters on screen the top row
I'm simply using a font there that shows
you what the seal script look like and
then the row below that is modern
handwriting but those are the same
characters three examples same three you
were just looking at before here's the
yarn radical and what should leap out at
you from the pictograph on the bottom is
that this used to have the standard pair
of legs on the bottom of the character
that you will have seen again and again
in Chinese certainly within the first
ten characters you learn you will learn
the pair of legs radical and what's on
the top of the pair of legs
appropriately enough for the meaning
yawn it's a very stylized open mouth so
it's supposed to be an image of a man
standing with his mouth open but in a
totally incoherent twist of fate the
legs have actually gotten garbled so
that we're now depicting the entire
human body it's the stylized figure for
the full human form below the open mouth
and as you've probably noticed the open
mouth is unrecognizable here we have a
contrast between the Yan radical and two
other radicals two other characters at
least that feature an open mouth on top
of legs so the same idea was created and
recreated in the language in a way
that's not systematic there's no way you
could identify one by looking at the
other there's of course there's no way
you can never guess the phonetics from
one to the other and you know if you
haven't already memorized this kind of
etymological analysis the radicals you
wouldn't be able to make the link from
the character that's on the left hand of
the screen to the character that's on
the right hand of the screen let alone
the ones halfway in the middle but
actually all of these are different ways
to depict an open mouth on legs which is
of course alluding to human form and a
certain type of action so even when we
know what all the symbols are they are
not systematic you've probably had
enough time to stare at it already but
on screen there on the left hand side
one of the most common characters in the
Chinese language you say it every time
you say hello and inexplicably we've
ended up with the open mouth figure from
the top half of the Yan radical it has
no business being there you can look at
the pictograph on the far left of the
screen and you can see that this is
simply an etymology that's broken and
we're stuck with yet another example of
one of the most frequently used words in
the Chinese language having no
explanation no meaning having just
broken down and become incoherent one of
the ideas that appears again and again
in Chinese is of the human mouth many
many different meanings are expressed by
combining a mouth with a few extra lines
here or there on the far left side of
the screen you see what are probably the
first two examples of this you learn one
is just called the mouth reticle and the
other is called the speech radical in
English
and then in the center box we have three
more elaborate figures where I would say
that you probably wouldn't recognize the
figure of the mouth even if you know to
look for a certain type of square form
and within these few examples you
already have the idea that anything
that's a square or a triangle can be a
mouth and the Chinese language is in
large part composed of squares and
triangles so again the ability of a
reader to recognize a mouth as a mouth
is almost nil and the ability to make a
sort of correct inference going from one
character and other through comparison
and so on is close to zero although not
not quite zero and then on the right
hand side this is one of the the less
widely understood mouth radicals at the
top of the flute radical there the
triangle is another way of depicting the
human mouth the flu radical there of
very simply you're looking at a mouth on
top blowing down into a very stylized
depiction of what we'd call in English
has panpipes the three boxes represent
the openings of the holes and then you
have the length of the flute below that
so you can imagine what a different
world we would live in if Chinese
teachers spent a lot of time explaining
to you what any of these images were
supposed to be I think for the most part
people are stuck with memorize and move
on attitudes and their teachers and
being forced to move through this stuff
as quickly as possible and that's why so
many misconceptions with the language
are prevalent among both foreigners and
native speakers the flute radical is
there again at the top left and you can
see an image of what it looked like in
ancient seal script these images are all
thanks to the work of Richard Sears he
actually does not own the copyright to
them but he is the guy who did the hard
work of getting them into a format where
they could be widely used in the
internet and now they used by Wikipedia
in many other sources one of the
absolutely most common words in the
Chinese language is in the top right
corner of your screen now and this is
used to form meanings like to be able to
do something all kinds of stories and
excuses are made up for this character
it's one of the first characters you
have to learn I think most people are
told just memorize it it doesn't have to
make sense the part that doesn't make
sense if you look at the seal script it
made sense a few thousand years ago but
we actually do not know what the
component in the middle is so we know we
have a mouth at the top and then we have
a different mouth radical at the bottom
but what is in between the two is today
unknown and unless someone is going to
go out and really on earth some new
archaeological finds do some analysis of
ancient bronze castings or something of
the sort we may never know so there is
one mystery in the middle of that
character in the bottom left corner this
is what you see on signs for restaurants
all the time again one of the very first
words you'll ever learn but probably
you've had people tell you that the top
part of the character is the roof over
house or the roof of a restaurant or
maybe the lid on top of a pot that's
boiling food it's none of those things
it's the mouth reticle and again if you
just compare those three images three
pictographs you can see very clearly the
same triangular idea of stylizing the
mouth that's at the top blowing into the
pipes and the flute radical it appears
here again above the pot that's cooking
the food and in the bottom right corner
we have a contrast all of the first
three it would be impossible to guess
that you're looking at a mouth that
triangular arrangement the top but here
it would be hard to guess that you're
looking at the opposite this
historically this is a pretty pretty
famous character because it did actually
used to look like a bell a heavy iron
cast Bell of common in traditional
Chinese culture still pretty commonly
display today as a symbol status or
affluence but it has been stylized
incoherent ly over time to really
resemble one of the characters that's
built out of the triangular mouth
radical so the moral of the story is
that the system is not systematic and
here I'm drawing your attention to the
fact that both in the older seal script
and in a modern hand written form
there's really no clear hint if anything
in this case it's more confusing in seal
script so it's also not a simple case of
saying well the new methods of writing
are bad and the old methods of running
are good and many of the resemblances
that we rely on our imaginary not just
in the sense that they reflect maybe a
tradition of imagining what the
characters are supposed to be but people
make up their own stories people make up
their own fables to help the memorized
characters as do teachers parents and so
on I it would be impossible if you were
if you were learning Chinese in a vacuum
if you were just starting from a blank
sheet of paper it would be impossible to
guess what these three pictures have in
common and of course the three
characters also have no phonetic link
but believe it or not all three of the
images are looking at do you depict
human feet and there you have the only
slightly less stylized a image of the
feed two of them and they were Radical
at the top one on the bottom left-hand
bottom right but these different ways of
symbolically depicting feet in the seal
script stage so again the the type of
inference in connection we make I don't
know if it would be an insult to
philosophy to say that it's
philosophical but it takes a lot of
imagination a lot of memorization and a
lot of hard work to ring the meaning out
of the system of radicals and to enrich
your own reading of Chinese by being
able to break down the characters so in
terms of practical conclusions the
radicals are not a systematic
description of the language the not a
system at all there's no systematic
relationship here that's being revealed
within the language instead the radicals
present an analysis going
which that raises more questions than
answers and that's okay and whether or
not you think it's okay we'll come down
to your own character whether or not you
think those questions are worth asking
and whether or not you you'd like to
have access to this kind of ancient and
philosophical dimension of the language
instead of just memorizing a million
meaningless brushstrokes this is sort of
first things last the etymology of word
may be completely unrelated to its
current appearance and it may now even
be unrelated to the radicals that are
used in forming that appearance the
example in the bottom left is one of the
first words you need to learn in Chinese
you've been saying it every time you say
thank you even if you haven't learned
how to read it yet the next character to
the right is the phonetic loan particle
used in writing the word for thank you
and it means to shoot as into fire and
arrow and then moving a stage further to
the right you see the ancient pictograph
when that character actually looked like
a hand a human hand reaching out for or
using a bow and arrow tragically
incoherently it is no longer a depiction
of a bow and arrow instead we have a
totally unrelated word that actually
depicts the human body in a very
stylized form that has replaced the bow
and arrow so coming back to my earlier
point in this case we're not looking at
anything unknown it's known the whole
history the whole meaning of the
character and all of its components is
known as well understood by scholars
there are no question marks here it's
also broken so we're left in the 21st
century to work within the limits of
what I would not even call a broken
system but a bunch of broken information
that has not yet even been assembled
into a systematic analysis the language
lots of fun huh
you